README.md, before:

# 💎 JewelryOps AI Agent
A Tool-Using, Human-in-the-Loop AI Agent for Vertical SaaS

This repository contains a fully functional AI agent designed for JewelryOps, a SaaS platform for jewelry retailers. 
Unlike a simple chatbot or RAG chain, this is a stateful Agent built with LangGraph that runs in a cognitive loop (Observe -> Decide -> Act), manages its own memory, and orchestrates tools across three distinct simulated systems.

# 🏗️ Architecture
This project implements a Model Context Protocol (MCP) architecture to decouple the Agent's "Brain" from its "Tools".

## The Core Components
### The Brain:

Built on LangGraph.

Uses Groq free accessible version for decision-making.
Maintains conversation state using MemorySaver and add_messages reducer.

### The Frontend:

Streamlit interface for user interaction.

Manages the Async Event Loop to handle asynchronous tool execution alongside the synchronous UI.
Implements Human-in-the-Loop interrupts for sensitive actions.

### The Tool Layer (MCP Servers):

CRM Server (server_crm.py): Manages customer data and handles ambiguity (e.g., duplicate names).
OMS Server (server_oms.py): Handles Orders & Inventory. Includes "Side Effect" tools like Refunds.
Comms Server (server_comms.py): Handles simulated emails and internal notes.

# 🧠 How the agent manages context and tool selection
## This agent uses a Dynamic Reasoning Loop:

### 1. Context Management:

- The agent uses MemorySaver to persist the chat history.
- It remembers entities found in previous turns (e.g., if you find "Alice's ID" in turn 1, you can say "Check her orders" in turn 2).

### 2. Tool Selection Strategy:

- Dynamic Sequencing: The System Prompt instructs the agent to form its own plan based on the user's goal. For example, if a Return is blocked by policy, the agent autonomously pivots to check the Warranty policy.
- Parallel Execution: To improve efficiency, the agent is instructed to call multiple independent tools (e.g., get_order_details + check_inventory) in a single turn.

### 3. Ambiguity Handling:

- If the CRM tool returns multiple matches (e.g., two "Alices"), the tool returns a specific AMBIGUOUS_MATCH error signal.
- The Agent is programmed to halt execution and ask the user for clarification, preventing hallucinations.

# 🚀 Features
✅ Runs in a cyclic graph.

✅ Remembers previous turns.

✅ 3 MCP Toolsets.

✅ Custom Logic Tools.

✅ Strictly enforces Human Confirmation before executing sensitive tools.

✅ Clarifying questions to ask for help when data is ambiguous.

# 🛠️ Setup & Installation
This project uses uv for extremely fast dependency management.

## 1. Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- uv installed
- Groq API Key

## 2. Installation
### Clone the repo
### Install dependencies:
- uv sync

## 3. Environment Configuration
- Create a .env file in the root directory: GQ_API_KEY=AIzaSy...

# ▶️ How to Run it
### Because the MCP servers are launched as subprocesses by the Agent, you only need to run the Streamlit app:
- uv run streamlit run app/app.py

## 🧪 Test Scenarios & Mock Data

This agent uses an **in-memory SQLite database** populated with mocked data to simulate a real jewelry store environment. 
You can use the following profiles and scenarios to verify the agent's reasoning capabilities.

### 👥 Mocked Customer Database
| Name | Email | ID | VIP Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Alice Diamond** | alice.d@example.com | `CUST_001` | ✅ **Yes** |
| **Alice Silver** | alice.s@example.com | `CUST_999` | ❌ No |
| **Bob Gold** | bob@example.com | `CUST_002` | ❌ No |

### 📦 Mocked Order History
| Order ID | Customer | Item | Date | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `ORD_101` | Alice Diamond | Sapphire Necklace | 2023-10-01 | **DELIVERED** |
| `ORD_102` | Bob Gold | Gold Ring | 2025-01-15 | **PROCESSING** (Stuck) |
| `ORD_999` | Alice Silver | Gold Necklace | 2025-10-20 | **SHIPPED** |

---

### 🔎 Verification Prompts
Use these prompts to test the agent:

#### 1. Ambiguity Resolution (Entity Extraction)
**Goal:** Prove the agent asks clarifying questions when multiple matches are found.
> **Prompt:** "Find the customer profile for Alice."
* **Expected Behavior:** The agent detects two "Alices" (Diamond & Silver) and asks the user to specify which one.

#### 2. Complex Reasoning (Policy vs. Context)
**Goal:** Prove the agent can override standard policy based on order context (Reasoning Loop).
> **Prompt:** "Bob Gold wants to return his Gold Ring from the last order."
* **Context:** The order is from Jan 2025 (>30 days ago), which violates the standard return policy.
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1.  Agent checks policy -> "Return window expired."
    2.  Agent checks order status -> "Status is PROCESSING (Never delivered)."
    3.  **Conclusion:** Agent determines the customer *is* eligible for a refund because the item never arrived, overriding the date check.

#### 3. Human-in-the-Loop (Safety)
**Goal:** Demonstrate the security interception for sensitive actions.
> **Prompt:** "Process a refund for Bob Gold's order ORD_102."
* **Expected Behavior:** The agent calculates the refund is valid, but **stops** before executing. 
* The UI displays an "Approve/Reject" button. The tool `action_process_refund` only runs after you click "Approve".

#### 4. Inventory & VIP Check
**Goal:** Verify multi-step database lookups.
> **Prompt:** "Check the stock for Sapphire Necklace and tell me if Alice Diamond is a VIP."
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1.  Queries Inventory -> "5 in Vault A".
    2.  Queries CRM -> "Alice Diamond is VIP".
    3.  Combines both into a single concise answer.

#### 5. Any other prompts based on the mocked data.
**Goal** Verify agent behaviour in unpredictable use cases.
> **Prompt** "...Any...situation...you...want...to...simulate...for...the...agent..."
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1. You should see unscripted work of this agent. Actions depends on your prompt.

Commit message:

Add clarification to READMY about unit tests runs.

README.md, after:

# 💎 JewelryOps AI Agent
A Tool-Using, Human-in-the-Loop AI Agent for Vertical SaaS

This repository contains a fully functional AI agent designed for JewelryOps, a SaaS platform for jewelry retailers. 
Unlike a simple chatbot or RAG chain, this is a stateful Agent built with LangGraph that runs in a cognitive loop (Observe -> Decide -> Act), manages its own memory, and orchestrates tools across three distinct simulated systems.

# 🏗️ Architecture
This project implements a Model Context Protocol (MCP) architecture to decouple the Agent's "Brain" from its "Tools".

## The Core Components
### The Brain:

Built on LangGraph.

Uses Groq free accessible version for decision-making.
Maintains conversation state using MemorySaver and add_messages reducer.

### The Frontend:

Streamlit interface for user interaction.

Manages the Async Event Loop to handle asynchronous tool execution alongside the synchronous UI.
Implements Human-in-the-Loop interrupts for sensitive actions.

### The Tool Layer (MCP Servers):

CRM Server (server_crm.py): Manages customer data and handles ambiguity (e.g., duplicate names).
OMS Server (server_oms.py): Handles Orders & Inventory. Includes "Side Effect" tools like Refunds.
Comms Server (server_comms.py): Handles simulated emails and internal notes.

# 🧠 How the agent manages context and tool selection
## This agent uses a Dynamic Reasoning Loop:

### 1. Context Management:

- The agent uses MemorySaver to persist the chat history.
- It remembers entities found in previous turns (e.g., if you find "Alice's ID" in turn 1, you can say "Check her orders" in turn 2).

### 2. Tool Selection Strategy:

- Dynamic Sequencing: The System Prompt instructs the agent to form its own plan based on the user's goal. For example, if a Return is blocked by policy, the agent autonomously pivots to check the Warranty policy.
- Parallel Execution: To improve efficiency, the agent is instructed to call multiple independent tools (e.g., get_order_details + check_inventory) in a single turn.

### 3. Ambiguity Handling:

- If the CRM tool returns multiple matches (e.g., two "Alices"), the tool returns a specific AMBIGUOUS_MATCH error signal.
- The Agent is programmed to halt execution and ask the user for clarification, preventing hallucinations.

# 🚀 Features
✅ Runs in a cyclic graph.

✅ Remembers previous turns.

✅ 3 MCP Toolsets.

✅ Custom Logic Tools.

✅ Strictly enforces Human Confirmation before executing sensitive tools.

✅ Clarifying questions to ask for help when data is ambiguous.

# 🛠️ Setup & Installation
This project uses uv for extremely fast dependency management.

## 1. Prerequisites
- Python 3.10+
- uv installed
- Groq API Key

## 2. Installation
### Clone the repo
### Install dependencies:
- uv sync

## 3. Environment Configuration
- Create a .env file in the root directory: GQ_API_KEY=AIzaSy...

# ▶️ How to Run it
### Because the MCP servers are launched as subprocesses by the Agent, you only need to run the Streamlit app:
- uv run streamlit run app/app.py

## 🧪 Test Scenarios & Mock Data

This agent uses an **in-memory SQLite database** populated with mocked data to simulate a real jewelry store environment. 
You can use the following profiles and scenarios to verify the agent's reasoning capabilities.

### 👥 Mocked Customer Database
| Name | Email | ID | VIP Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **Alice Diamond** | alice.d@example.com | `CUST_001` | ✅ **Yes** |
| **Alice Silver** | alice.s@example.com | `CUST_999` | ❌ No |
| **Bob Gold** | bob@example.com | `CUST_002` | ❌ No |

### 📦 Mocked Order History
| Order ID | Customer | Item | Date | Status |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `ORD_101` | Alice Diamond | Sapphire Necklace | 2023-10-01 | **DELIVERED** |
| `ORD_102` | Bob Gold | Gold Ring | 2025-01-15 | **PROCESSING** (Stuck) |
| `ORD_999` | Alice Silver | Gold Necklace | 2025-10-20 | **SHIPPED** |

---
### 🔎 For running unit tests
- Go to the app folder - cd app/
- Run - pytest tests/
---

### 🔎 Verification Prompts
Use these prompts to test the agent:

#### 1. Ambiguity Resolution (Entity Extraction)
**Goal:** Prove the agent asks clarifying questions when multiple matches are found.
> **Prompt:** "Find the customer profile for Alice."
* **Expected Behavior:** The agent detects two "Alices" (Diamond & Silver) and asks the user to specify which one.

#### 2. Complex Reasoning (Policy vs. Context)
**Goal:** Prove the agent can override standard policy based on order context (Reasoning Loop).
> **Prompt:** "Bob Gold wants to return his Gold Ring from the last order."
* **Context:** The order is from Jan 2025 (>30 days ago), which violates the standard return policy.
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1.  Agent checks policy -> "Return window expired."
    2.  Agent checks order status -> "Status is PROCESSING (Never delivered)."
    3.  **Conclusion:** Agent determines the customer *is* eligible for a refund because the item never arrived, overriding the date check.

#### 3. Human-in-the-Loop (Safety)
**Goal:** Demonstrate the security interception for sensitive actions.
> **Prompt:** "Process a refund for Bob Gold's order ORD_102."
* **Expected Behavior:** The agent calculates the refund is valid, but **stops** before executing. 
* The UI displays an "Approve/Reject" button. The tool `action_process_refund` only runs after you click "Approve".

#### 4. Inventory & VIP Check
**Goal:** Verify multi-step database lookups.
> **Prompt:** "Check the stock for Sapphire Necklace and tell me if Alice Diamond is a VIP."
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1.  Queries Inventory -> "5 in Vault A".
    2.  Queries CRM -> "Alice Diamond is VIP".
    3.  Combines both into a single concise answer.

#### 5. Any other prompts based on the mocked data.
**Goal** Verify agent behaviour in unpredictable use cases.
> **Prompt** "...Any...situation...you...want...to...simulate...for...the...agent..."
* **Expected Behavior:**
    1. You should see unscripted work of this agent. Actions depends on your prompt.
